chore: refactored rate-limit docs, added endpoint-based page and over… (#1896)
ory/docs: docs/guides/rate-limits-project-based.mdx

---
id: project-based-rate-limits
title: Project-Based Rate Limits
sidebar_label: Project-Based Rate Limits
---

## Introduction

> This page provides a comprehensive explanation of Ory's Project-Based Rate Limiting. These limits are designed to ensure fair

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page provides a comprehensive explanation of Ory's Project Tier-Based Rate Limiting. These limits are designed to ensure fair
```

resource allocation and maintain the stability and performance of the Ory Network across different project plans and environments.

## What are Project-Based Rate Limits?

Project-Based Rate Limits are controls applied to your entire Ory project, governing the overall request volumes across various
API endpoints. These limits vary based on your project's plan (Developer, Production, Growth, or Enterprise) and the specific
environment (Production, Staging, or Workspace).

## How Project-Based Rate Limits Work

Project-Based Rate Limits analyze incoming requests across your entire project and consider factors such as:

- **Project Plan:** Different plans (Developer, Production, Growth, Enterprise) have different rate limit thresholds.

> - **Environment:** Limits may vary between Production, Staging, and Workspace environments.

Reviewer: This is not fully true, the difference between development and stage is mostly in features, and not rates. We had situations where clients would change their projects from dev to stage in hopes to increase their limits which caused confusion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Environment:** Limits are low for Development and Staging environments, and high for Production environments.
```

maybe this? 
what is a workspace env? does that mean the difference of rate limit on workspace/project level?

|                | `GET /admin/identities`    |          10 |             300 |
|                | `*`                        |          40 |             900 |
| **Staging**    | `/sessions/whoami`         |          10 |              30 |
|                | `/admin/oauth2/introspect` |          10 |             300 |
|                | `/relation-tuples/check`   |          10 |             300 |
|                | `GET /admin/identities`    |           1 |              10 |
|                | `*`                        |           5 |             150 |

### Growth Plan Rate Limits

| Environment    | Path / Bucket              | Burst (rps) | Sustained (rpm) |
| :------------- | :------------------------- | ----------: | --------------: |
| **Production** | `/sessions/whoami`         |         800 |           18000 |
|                | `/admin/oauth2/introspect` |         800 |           18000 |
|                | `/relation-tuples/check`   |         800 |           18000 |
|                | `GET /admin/identities`    |          20 |             600 |
|                | `*`                        |         400 |            9000 |

> | **Staging**    | `/sessions/whoami`         |          10 |              30 |

Reviewer: staging has currently the same rates as dev, therefore i dont think it make sense to repeat that here. Clients already did assume that staging has more rates than developer in the past, so this need to be clarified better

|                | `/admin/oauth2/introspect` |          10 |             300 |
|                | `/relation-tuples/check`   |          10 |             300 |
|                | `GET /admin/identities`    |           1 |              10 |
|                | `*`                        |           5 |             150 |

## Important Notes on Project-Based Rate Limits

### Workspace Rate Limit

For all projects in a workspace, the rate limit is the same as for the production environment of your plan. For example, on the

> Production plan, the rate limit would be 80 rps on the `/sessions/whoami` path for all projects combined in the workspace.

Reviewer: Are you sure about that? Clients had a single workspace with both prod and dev projects, and they had ratelimit keys based only on the project tier. Our envoy based config has no information about workspaces, only project data

Author: I copied the current docs on the project tier-based rate-limits with a todo to check with you and Patrik. I will do so this week.
